Title: We're doing software wrong
Date: 2022-08-26
Tags: waffle
Description: In which I make a bold statement, but then rather than explaining it or providing any evidence whatsoever, go on to talk about something completely different.
Image: assets/2022-08-26-preview.jpg
Image-Alt: A man on a mobile phone stands in front of a wall with the word "productivity" written on it - Photo by Andreas Klassen on Unsplash

I have a friend named Ray, and Ray has a dog named Eula (yes, that
[EULA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/End-user_license_agreement), and yes, Ray
enjoys making bad jokes). As some of you may know, I also have a dog, whose name
is Rover:

![A dog sleeps on a bed, hugging a stuffed toy fox][rover]

People with dogs must walk these dogs several times a day, and since, as
previously established, Ray and I are people with dogs, we walk them several
times a day. Sometimes, these walks are coordinated (either by chance or by
design) to allow us to chat together whilst we walk. Since Ray lives in Belgium
and I live in Stockholm, we must rely on the magic of technology to enable these
conversations.

Actually, I was just thinking about that the other day. I spent a year studying
abroad in Japan in the year 2000 BS (Before Skype), and whilst
[VOIP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voice_over_IP) did exist, you either needed
expensive hardware or a Linux box with complicated software that only the
geekiest of Linux geeks could make work. My parents had neither the hardware nor
the Linux expertise, so when I wanted to talk to them, I had to use this legacy
thing called a "tele-phone". It's like a phone, but without the screen and the
Twitter and all of that. And international calls were bloody expensive! I bought
these phone cards for Â¥5000--about $50--which had about 15 minutes of credit on
them. And now it's just free to call anyone with an Internet connection and an
app. ðŸ¤¯

In any case, Ray and I walk and talk once a week or so, and the conversations go
all over the place. There's a lot of Clojure (Ray's also a Clojure dev), a lot
of politics, and some existential rambling. It was on a walk a couple of weeks
back that we came to the shocking conclusion that we're doing software all
wrong. We've been talking it through a bunch since then, and are trying to
figure out how to explain this to people who are not us. When we do figure it
out, expect a series of blog posts on the subject. ðŸ˜€

It's really cool to have an opinionated friend that I can talk to who isn't
afraid to disagree with me or point to flaws in my reasoning. Disagreements in
good faith are one of the best ways to develop ideas, discard ideas, or figure
out how to explain ideas. Of course, we don't disagree about everything; in
fact, it's more common that one of us says something that the other one has
thought a little about, then we riff on it and explore it.

The other requirement for this to work is that both you and the other person
have to be genuinely interested in what the other person is saying, and listen
actively. It's so common for a discussion to be more like waiting for your turn
to talk instead of actually listening. There's this pithy little saying
something like "it's the responsibility of the communicator to be understood,"
and of course I get the idea behind it, but like so many pithy little sayings,
it leaves out the context and in so doing, absolves the listener from their
responsibility in the conversation.

That's a topic for another day, actually. We have loads of pithy little sayings
in software like "don't repeat yourself" and "if you can't measure it, you can't
manage it," and I think they do tremendous harm when misapplied, which is most
of the time.

That's it for today. Just remember: a stitch in time saves nine!

[rover]:[assets/2022-08-26-rover-fox.jpg "To sleep perchance to dream" width=800px]
