Title: The Warsaw Pact
Tags: waffle
Date: 2022-07-01

I should be driving back from the airport right now, having retrieved my wife
and son after their trip to Bulgaria. What I am doing instead is writing a blog
entry, which of course I would have done earlier if they weren't currently
chilling in Warsaw, thanks to a two hour flight delay. At least it's not
Heathrow or JFK or one of those horrible places, though.

So yeah, the dog and I have been here by ourselves for the last 10 days, and
whilst we've entertained ourselves well enough, it will be nice to have the rest
of the family back. I expect that Rover will lose the plot entirely when Lyani
and Kai walk through the door.

I had this idea today when I was riding my bike and I dinged the bell so that
two people walking side by side would switch to single file so I could pass them
without hitting them or getting hit in the face by a bush, but then of course
they maintained present course and speed so I had to risk the bush and luckily I
was wearing my helmet so I could just duck my head and pray there weren't any
solid branches in there. My idea was to write a piece about all the things that
annoy me, but do it in a really passive aggressive way and make a joke that it
was an assignment for my Swedish citizenship exam, because passive aggression is
even more Swedish than IKEA, but then I ended up realising that there really
aren't that many things that annoy me enough to write a humorous piece about.

There are things that make me angry, injustices of all sort and when Arsenal
lose a game of football, but for the most part, I don't get annoyed when people
don't behave like I think they should. This is the result of a conscious choice,
though. You see, a few years back (six or so, if my memory serves), I was
commuting to work every day, and was always getting annoyed by things like
people standing on the wrong side of the escalator or not waiting for people to
get off the train before barging in or people stopping suddenly in the middle of
the sidewalk or whatever. I took my wife to see La Boheme at the opera house
downtown, and after the opera, we were catching the train home. We needed to
walk down a long escalator, and a train was coming, so we wanted to hurry up and
catch it. Two young women were standing side by side on the escalator, blocking
our path, and I said "Move!" to them in quite an angry tone of voice, and my
wife gave me a look.

We missed that train and had to wait five whole minutes for the next one, during
which time my wife told me that it really bothered her when I acted like that.
"What do you mean?" I said, "They were clearly in the wrong and because of that
we missed our train." "So what?" she said, "Now you're annoyed, I'm annoyed, and
do you think those two learned their lesson and will never be mildly
inconsiderate again in their lives?" I recognised this as one of those questions
that don't require an answer, so I shut my mouth and thought a little about what
she'd said. The more I thought about it, the more I realised that she had a good
point. Me getting angry at random commuters had no effect on the world other
than making me feel worse.

So I tried to break the habit starting the next morning on my way to work. When
someone didn't move their bag off the seat so someone else could sit down,
instead of letting the righteous anger course through my veins, I just ignored
it. Or tried to, at least. When someone pushed onto the train as I was trying to
get off, I just squeezed past them and went on with my day.

It didn't happen overnight, and it took a lot of intentional effort, but I was
able to train myself to stop expecting everyone to behave exactly as I thought
they should behave at all times. Because let's face it, there are about a
million reasons why someone could commit one of these minor commuting sins.
Maybe they're in a hurry for a really valid reason (late for a job interview,
for example). Maybe they're distracted and don't notice they're standing in the
middle of the bike path. Maybe they're really tired because they just got off a
double shift at some shitty job. Or maybe they're an inconsiderate prick, but I
honestly think that is the least likely of the many reasons people do
inconsiderate things.

Plus, who the fuck am I to judge what the right thing for other people to do is?
I can certainly judge what the right thing for **me** to do is, and then I can
feel better about myself by doing that thing, so maybe that's what I should
concentrate on doing, rather than being the arbiter of decency for everyone
moving around the city of Stockholm.

And you know what? It worked. Not getting all worked up about what other people
are doing has actually made me happier.

So sorry, no fun article about things I hate. Instead, I'm going to take a nice
cold shower and get in a few turns of Civ V before it's time to drive to the
airport and pick up the family.
