Title: Those about to rock
Tags: waffle
Date: 2022-06-22

I'm getting toward the end of another eventful day. I woke up around 8:00, which
is quite an achievment for me, since the sun is currently rising here in Sweden
at 3:30 AM and my bedroom window faces almost directly northeast. I usually wake
up around 4:00 AM and then struggle to go back to sleep for another hour and a
half, but this morning, I didn't wake until 5:30, and got **two** and a half
more hours!

Rested and ready for the day, I made a pot of coffee and then plopped down on
the sofa to play some [Dominion](https://dominion.games/) online. I followed
that up with a healthy breakfast, then took the dog out for a long walk. Upon my
return, I sat down at the computer and finished chapter 2 of "[Story of a mediocre
fan](https://7amkickoff.com/index.php/2022/06/16/story-of-a-mediocre-fan/)",
which should hopefully be going up on 7amkickoff tomorrow. Then it was time to
take Rover to the veterinarian to get his doggy passport. Betcha didn't know
they had those, did you? Rover was a very good boy even though he had to get his
rabies vaccine booster, so he was rewarded quite generously with treats. I'd
actually love if someone gave me a bunch of yummy snacks after I had to have a
blood test or something else scary like that. I'll file that in my startup ideas
pile: treats for brave humans. But digital somehow. Maybe some sort of
non-fungible treat?

What's in store for tonight, though, puts all of this to shame. My friend Simon
is coming over for some Guitar Hero. Our epic rock session last night just
whetted our appetites for face-melting solos, so we're back at it again tonight.
I didn't have time to make guacamole yesterday, so I'm doing it today, along
with those black bean burritos that I was planning yesterday. Add a pitcher of
margaritas and two plastic guitars and you have yourself a party!

So for those about to rock, [we salute you](https://youtu.be/8fPf6L0XNvM)! Now
I'm off to the store to buy some limes and stuff.
