Title: So close!
Date: 2022-07-21
Tags: football,euro2022

The family and I are sitting on the sofa in Malaga, watching the Austria-Germany
quarterfinal match in the Women's EUR0 2022. I'm of course cheering for Austria,
since they have two Arsenal players (goalkeeper [Manu
Zinsberger](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Manuela_Zinsberger) and right back
[Laura Wienrother](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laura_Wienroither)), and also
since they are very much the underdogs. It's halftime, and Germany are leading
1-0 due to a ball recovery in midfield and a lightning quick attack, culminating
in a drive into the box, pinpoint drag back, fantastic dummy, and laser-guided
finish. So that sucks (even thought it was impressive to watch, I have to
admit).

However, the best moment in the match so far was when Austria won a corner which
Verena Hanshaw took. She found one of her teammates on the edge of the six yard
box, who looped a header over the German defenders, leaving the keeper looking
on in despair... but then it crashed against the outside of the post instead of
nestling into the side of the net. When they showed the replay, we got a look at
her name: Georgieva. I turned to my wife, "she has to be Bulgarian, right?" My
wife nodded, "Could well be," she said. The match was far too gripping to look
away from until halftime, but then I looked her up and saw that she has both
Austrian and Bulgarian flags in her Insta profile! (In case you're confused by
any of this, my wife is Bulgarian.)

As I write this now, the match is over and Germany have won (of course they
have) and my heart is filled with sadness, but also gladness, because we had a
lovely day on the beach and in the pool and just hanging out together. My
mission to enjoy the vacation is on track!
