Title: Reviewing tech interviewing
Date: 2022-08-03
Tags: hiring,tech

Earlier this summer, I decided to switch jobs after six years at my previous
company. I had joined as an engineer, but a few months into the pandemic, I had
one of those "OMG what am I doing with my life?" moments that I guess quite a
few people did, and asked myself why I was still at that company after almost
five years (as it was in the spring of 2020). It wasn't the industry; it wasn't
something I was passionate about. It wasn't the tech; even though we were using
stuff I enjoyed a lot, so are many other companies, and some of them are even
using Clojure, which I wasn't at the time. What it was was the people I worked
with. Over my time there, I met a lot of great engineers and a lot of wonderful
human beings, and there was a lot of overlap between those two groups. So given
this was the case, why in the world wasn't I in a job where I could spend 100%
of my time on the people?

And that is why I decided to change careers and become an Engineering Manager
back in the spring of last year. And believe me, it is a career change, **not**
a promotion. The two most common reasons engineers go into management are
because they do see it as a promotion, or maybe even more frequently, because
there's no one else to do it. I have personally tried management for that latter
reason twice, and absolutely hated it. And that's no surprise really; I mean,
falling on a grenade is not usually fun.

But this time around, I got into it for the right reasons: to be able to focus on
helping people grow and succeed in their careers, and to be able to have a
bigger impact on the culture in the Engineering organisation. I have to admit
going in that I was a little worried that I'd miss coding, and would have to
spend my weekends on personal projects to feed the addiction, but I was
delighted to find that I didn't miss it. I made a deliberate choice not to be a
hands on manager, because the team I was directly managing had a very senior
engineer who was very capable of leading the day to day work, so I focused on
people development and improving our process.

I also got heavily into hiring, as building a great team requires making sure
that the people you're bringing in are the right people to take the team
forward. I had been involved in hiring from almost the beginning of my time at
the company, but had taken a break for a year when I moved into a lead architect
role so that I could be sure I had enough time to do a good job in that role.
Getting back into interviewing after my self-imposed hiatus was great. I had
forgotten how much I enjoyed meeting candidates and doing my best to give them a
platform to demonstrate their abilities and personality.

When I decided to leave my job at the beginning of June and started interviewing
at other companies, it was a strange feeling to be back on that side of the
table after so many years. I had the privilege of not being in a hurry, however,
and I found that I actually enjoyed most of the processes. I wasn't desperate to
find a new job right away, so I didn't feel any pressure. I just tried to be
myself and be honest.

I wanted to share a couple of things that I liked and didn't like about the
processes that I was in, and also share a few questions that I asked to try and
determine whether the company would be a place I would enjoy working.

## Stuff I liked

First of all, I have to say that most of the processes were great. The HR people
got back to me in good time after each interview, often with useful feedback.
Unlike a lot of interviews for engineering positions, the Engineering Manager
interviews tended to be behavioural interviews based on my actual experience;
for example, questions like "Tell me about a time when you had to work with an
under-performing report" or "Tell me about a time when you had to give difficult
feedback to a superior." These sort of questions have no right or wrong answer,
but in the hands of a skilled interviewer, can spark deep conversations where
you gain a lot of insight into a person's management style. I had a lot of
experience conducting these interviews (I think they're great for any candidate,
not just managers, and we used them for engineering roles at my previous company
as well), and it was fun being on the other end of them.

The coolest interview I had was a two part interview in which I talked to a
couple of people in the team I would be managing and got a feel for their
personal development needs as well as challenges that the team faced, and then
was debriefed by the person who I would be reporting to. It was a really novel
interview, and I think did a great job of putting me in a very realistic setting
and letting me demonstrate skills that I would actually be using day to day. So
much better than coding on a whiteboard or answering trivia questions about some
technology or programming languages! (By the way, if your company still does
those type of interview, please stop it immediately; they don't tell you
anything useful and most candidate hate them.)

## Stuff I didn't like

A couple of companies unfortunately had logic and/or personality tests. Those
are really horrible, and I've never seen any data showing a strong correlation
between performance on those tests and actual job performance, despite actively
looking for it. My previous job used a logic test, and I spend the entire five
years I was involved in hiring there trying in vain to get rid of it or get
evidence that it was useful in any way. Those tests can put people with ADHD or
dyslexia or other neurodiverse conditions at a huge disadvantage, and even
companies who offer exemptions in those cases put the candidate in a position
where they have to disclose something about themselves that should have no
bearing on job performance.

One company had a battery of tests that took over an hour to do, including a
logic test where you had to identify patterns, a numerical reasoning test, a
verbal reasoning test, and two separate personality tests. The logic and
numerical and verbal reasoning tests all had timed questions, which was
extremely stressful. I'm not great at doing calculations quickly, and the logic
test was either very hard or I'm just not good at that sort of thing. Neither of
these things has ever negatively affected my job performance, and I really don't
know what they expected to learn from the results of these tests. I didn't do
well on those two tests, and felt really horrible after taking them. My poor
performance didn't disqualify me, as the company chose to continue the process
with me, so as far as I could tell, they basically put me through an extremely
unpleasant situation for absolutely no reason. I felt bad for hours after taking
those tests.

Another company had a logic test, and I just told them that I wasn't going to
take it, so if that was a requirement for their process, I wasn't interested in
continuing. It was and I didn't.

If you have a logic test or similar, just know that you are losing candidates. I
have two friends who worked at my previous company that wouldn't even post job
openings because they were so sick of the abuse they would get because we had a
logic test in our process. Our recruiters have also gotten some really nasty
messages from candidates.

## Stuff I asked

Since I had the luxury of choice, it was really important to me to do the best I
could to ensure that the company would be a good fit for me. Here are some of
the questions I asked:

- **How does your company make money? Are you making money?** In the current
  climate, investors are starting to actually care about revenues and profits
  (which I think is a good thing, as long as the thinking isn't too short term)
  and aren't willing to continue to just shovel into a company that isn't making
  money and doesn't have a clear path to profitability. I didn't want to work
  for a company that was heading for layoffs.
- **Who are your investors?** Most tech companies are venture capital funded to
  some extent or other, and knowing which VC firms have leverage is important.
  Sequoia Capital, for example, is a major investor in a lot of the companies
  that have just laid off 10% of their workforce, and [they are serious about
  firms cutting
  costs](https://www.cnbc.com/2022/05/26/sequoia-coaches-start-ups-to-cut-costs-or-face-a-death-spiral-.html).
- **How diverse is senior leadership?** I've worked for plenty of companies
  where all of the CXOs are white men, and those companies tend to have
  Engineering departments that are mostly white men as well. Diversity and
  inclusion are really important to me, and I really believe that a company is
  only as diverse as its leaders. This question is also interesting in that it
  shows how the person answering it thinks about diversity. Do they view
  diversity as percentage of women, or do they think about other marginalised
  groups? Do they mention inclusion at all, or does it seem that they view
  diversity as [a pipeline
  problem](https://medium.com/tech-diversity-files/if-you-think-women-in-tech-is-just-a-pipeline-problem-you-haven-t-been-paying-attention-cb7a2073b996)?
- **How many hours per week do you work on average?** Over my career, I have
  found that there's an inverse correlation between the quantity of work
  expected and the quality of that work. I know that I personally am not capable
  of doing good work for more than about 40 hours a week. Sure, I can put in
  some extra hours if there's an emergency, but working much more than 40 for
  more than a couple of weeks in a row rapidly puts me in the red zone where I'm
  making poor decisions and a lot of mistakes. I know this varies from person to
  person, and some people actually like to to work longer hours, so I ask all of
  the interviewers this question. If everyone gives me an answer that is north
  of 40, I know that's not the place for me.

I hope this is useful for someone out there. Or maybe everything I've said here
is extremely obvious, in which case tech interviewing is a lot better than I
thought! 😉
