Title: Hands off women's football
Tags: football,euro2022
Date: 2022-07-10

The [Women's Euro 2022](https://www.uefa.com/womenseuro/) has served up some
great action so far. On opening night, an incredibly organised and hard-working
Austria held the mighty England to a single goal. We've seen Norway, Spain, and
Germany each score four goals in their first match, with Spain playing some of
the most technical football we've seen at the tournament so far, but also
pressing incredibly effectively and making some really committed tackles.
Yesterday saw the most evenly matched contests so far, with Switzerland going
2-0 up against Portugal in the first four minutes of the match, then Portugal
marching back in the second half to finish 2-2, and Sweden drawing the
Netherlands 1-1 in a match with lots of chances and lots of really good
defending.

The fans have been incredible! The England-Austria opener was held at Old
Trafford, and all 68,000 seats were filled, setting a new attendance record for
the Women's Euros (the all time attendance record for women's football was set
earlier this year, when 91,648 fans filled the Camp Nou as Barcelona beat
Wolfsburg 5-1 in the Women's Champions League semi-final). The
Netherlands-Sweden match last night was held in a much smaller stadium, but the
stadium was packed with Dutch fans in orange and Swedish fans in yellow, and the
atmosphere was fantastic. Twitter has been full of fans excitedly discussing the
matches and supporting their teams on the
[#EURO2022](https://twitter.com/hashtag/EURO2022) and [#WEURO2022](https://twitter.com/hashtag/WEURO2022) hashtags.

![Twitter post showing Dutch fans gathering in Devonshire Green, wearing orange shirts](assets/2022-07-10-devonshire-green-orange.png "Orange is the new green")

And of course, Twitter being Twitter, there are also the inevitable men that
have to post about how ridiculous women's football is and how it's nowhere near
as good as the men's game, and make sexist jokes and generally make an ass of
themselves.

![Screenshot of tweet: Is kick off always delayed waiting for the ladies to get ready? Just another 5 mins!](assets/2022-07-10-sexist-joke.png "Gross")

![Screenshot of tweet: I'm all for women's football. However, it's a bloody tough watch. I'm not even referring to the obvious fact the women's game is lacking in quality in comparison to the men's. The commentary & atmosphere just seems fake & forced. It's like a celebrity charity match.](assets/2022-07-10-all-for-it.png "Don't worry, he's all for it")

![Screenshot of tweet: It's seems strange & unequal when we all celebrate a women officiating at a men's soccer match, yet not a single male refereeing at @uefa
 European championships in the UK. Where is the equality, it's a two way
 street.](assets/2022-07-10-reverse-sexism.png "The plague reverse sexism")

Hopefully it's obvious to everyone reading this that there is absolutely no need
for this kind of bullshit. If you don't like women's football for whatever
reason, you are very welcome to not watch it. But why do you want to go on the
internet and shit on the people who are enjoying it? That's a rhetorical
question, of course; I know the answer (hint hint: rhymes with "misogyny").

If you like women's football already, you're definitely already watching this
tournament. If you like football but haven't seen any top-level women's
football, this tournament is a great introduction to some of the world's best
players, and has been delivering the goods so far. If you don't like women's
football, there's plenty of other stuff on TV, so you can just watch that and
spend zero time thinking about how unfair it is that women are playing football
and people are enjoying watching.
