Title: A portrait of the coder as a young(-ish) man
Tags: clojure,blog
Date: 2022-07-16

It's gonna be another short one today (#ðŸ“ž-it-ðŸ“¥), as I have 55 minutes to write
this post, take a shower, and walk to the bus stop so I can head into town to
meet my friend Jordan for a visit to
[Fotografiska](https://www.fotografiska.com/sto), a cool museum of photography.

I've been [hacking quite a bit on my blog](tags/blog.html) over the last few
days, but it's been behind the scenes stuff that speeds things up for me when I
publish a new post, so it's probably not very exciting unless you're a Clojure
programmer, in which case it's absolutely gripping stuff. Maybe. Probably not.
But perhaps.

Clojure impressario [borkdude](https://github.com/borkdude) (borkiest of all
dudes, let me assure you) got sick and tired of less borky dudes like myself
forking [his blog](https://github.com/borkdude/blog), so he wrapped it up as a
library and dubbed it [quickblog](https://github.com/borkdude/quickblog)!

[![Tweet with demo of blog rendering. Tweet reads: Announcing quickblog, a
light-weight static blog engine for Clojure and Babashka!](assets/2022-07-16-quickblog.png "Like a blog, but quicker!")](https://twitter.com/borkdude/status/1547912740156583936)

Since I've done various things to the blog since forking it, I've been hard at
work folding the useful stuff back into quickblog so that it will render this
blog and I can flush my hacky hacks down the toilet of history where they
belong. ðŸ˜‰

It's been loads of fun working with borkdude on this. I haven't really
collaborated on code with someone else since my friend Joanna and I wrote
version 2 of the components system for the Core Banking Platform at work a year
and a half or so ago, and it's something that I didn't know I was missing until
I started doing it again.

I like Clojure the programming language, but I don't think I would have stuck
with it for 10 years or however long it's been (I bought the first edition of
"[Programming
Clojure]"(https://pragprog.com/titles/shcloj3/programming-clojure-third-edition/)
when it was published back in 2008, but I didn't start using Clojure for
anything more than playing around in the REPL--mainly translating exercises from
"[The Little
Schemer](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/little-schemer-fourth-edition)" to
Clojure, truth be told--until around 2012, when I write a terribly awful system
test framework for an adserver at work) if it wasn't for Clojure the community,
especially the amazing European Clojurists who I used to run into at various
conferences around the continent before The End Times. Speaking of which, [Dutch
Clojure Days](https://clojuredays.org/) is back this year at the end of October,
so I hope to see some of you in Amsterdam! ðŸ˜€

Anyway, I'll let y'all know when quickblog is successfully rendering this blog,
and until then, I'll let y'all go.
