Title: Now that's more like it!
Date: 2022-07-17
Tags: football,euro2022

I watched the [Sweden-Portugal
match](https://www.uefa.com/womenseuro/match/2032223--sweden-vs-portugal/) at
the Women's Euro 2022, and that is definitely what I've been waiting for from
Sweden! We started the tournament against the Netherlands, who are definitely a
good team, but they were there for the taking and we couldn't do it. We looked
very rusty against Switzerland in our second match, but managed a goal early in
the second half, then conceded immediately afterwards and had to wait until the
79th minute to score the winner. It was not fun to watch, and the Swedish media
were rightly critical of the performance. This match, on the other hand, **was**
fun to watch, and I don't think the papers will be finding too much fault with
the performance in the morning.

We started very strongly, playing the first ten minutes or so pretty much in
Portugal's box. Being an Arsenal fan, I had that feeling like "we need to make
this pressure count or we're gonna regret it!" Well, we didn't make that
pressure count and we very nearly did regret it, as Portugal fought their way
back into the game and probably should have scored in the 17th minute. That
seemed to be the warning we needed, and Asllani took the game by the scruff of
the neck, striking terror into the Portuguese defenders with her quick feet,
great passing, and willingness to engage in the Dark Arts when necessary. At 21
minutes, she made a great pass to set up Nathalie BjÃ¶rn for a shot which was
deflected out for a corner. The delivery was good from the ensuing corner, and
the Portuguese goalkeeper came and punched it but didn't get much distance, and
when the ball dropped for Filippa Angeldahl, she blasted it in.

We continued turning the screw with some great pressing and varied attacking
play, winning a few more corners and looking dangerous, and then on 42 minutes,
Stina Blackstenius scored the goal of the tournament! Asllani received a pass
with her back to goal, but instead of controlling the back, she laid on a
delicious backheel to send Blackstenius through 1:1 against the keeper, and
Stina made no mistake with the finish. Unfortunately, she did make a mistake
with the timing of her run, and the goal was rightly ruled out for offside. ðŸ˜­

I was composing an angry tweet about how life is so unfair because the sheer
artistry of the pass from Asllani deserved a goal, when I got distracted by some
more great play by Asllani, this time a tricky dribble down to the baseline on
the right that drew a foul from the Portuguese defender. Asllani took the
resulting free kick low, pulling it back to Angeldahl as she made a run into the
box and knocked it in to make it 2-0 right before halftime. I decided to abort
the tweet, as it no longer felt that important to be upset about a goal we
didn't score.

There had been a fair few stoppages for injury, so 7 minutes were added on at
the end of the first half, and we got another goal off another set piece in the
7th of those minutes! It was more than I had hoped for, but certainly no less
than our performance up to that point warranted.

The second half was more of the same: Sweden pressing and winning the ball back
time and again, and unlike our errant and fairly insipid passing against the
Netherlands and Switzerland, this time we were moving the ball with purpose and
not wasting it. Stina Blackstenius started looking like her old self, making
some good runs and getting a few shots off, but she definitely looked like she
needed a goal to shake the cobwebs completely off after returning from a minor
injury that kept her out of the starting lineup for our first group game.

At 53 minutes, we were awarded a penalty (rather harshly, I have to admit) for a
handball in the box by Portugal. Asllani stepped up to take it, and put it so
far into the bottom right corner that the keeper couldn't get a hand to even
though she guessed the right way.

A few minutes later, Stina B finally got the goal she needed, with a beautiful
looping header over the keeper off the inside of the far post, but of course it
was ruled out for offside. They showed the frame that VAR used to make the
ruling, and sure enough, Stina's shoulder is at least two millimetres ahead of
the last defender's foot. Great use of technology there! ðŸ™„

Sweden took their foot off the pedal a bit after about 75 minutes, and Portugal
had a chance or two which they couldn't take, but then Blackstenius finally got
her goal one minute into added time, blasting it into the top corner from just
inside the box. I swear she looked over at the line judge to see if the flag was
up. ðŸ˜‚

That was a lot of fun, and I think fans and the players themselves needed a
reminder of why we are highly rated. I think there's still room for improvement,
which is encouraging, because England and Germany look like the teams to beat at
this tournament, and if we want to have a chance of beating either of them,
we're going to need to do all of the good stuff we did today, but better.

Now we're through to the quarterfinals as group winners, meaning we meet the
runners up from Group D, which will be one of Iceland, Belgium, or Italy. I'm
hoping it will be Iceland, who are definitely one of the underdogs in the
tournament. They're playing France tomorrow (ðŸ˜±), so I would expect they'll need
a lot of luck to go through, but stranger things have happened.

![Swedish players celebrate after the game][sweden]

[sweden]: assets/2022-07-17-sweden.jpg "Bra spelat!" width=800px
