Title: Here we go again!
Date: 2022-08-05
Tags: arsenal

It's the beginning of August and Arsenal's Premier League campaign is starting
again tonight with a match against Crystal Palace. This is definitely the most
excited I've been about a new season in quite a few years!

![Gabriel Magalhães, Gabriel Martinelli, and Gabriel Jesus standing together in
white Arsenal training tops][gabigabigabi]

The start of the first Emery season was interesting because for the first time
in 20+ years, no one had any idea what to expect, and the start of the second
Emery season was exciting because we'd just signed some Ivorian winger from the
French league for £72 million, so surely he'd be awesome, right? What was his
name again? The start of the first full Arteta season was exciting because we'd
just won the Arsène Wenger Memorial Cup for the 14th time and surely we'd kick
on from there, right?

In contrast, the start to last season was really low key for me. My expectations
were that we'd finish somewhere around 6th, and a good target for the season
would be qualifying for the Europa League. We'd signed Ødegaard permanently, and
that was awesome, but I didn't expect he'd single-handedly turn us into top four
challengers. We signed some young English defender named Ben White that I'd
never even heard of, and £50 million was a lot of bloody money and last time we
spent that on a player it was Pépé and we all remember how that went, right? And
we had a tough start to the season! The opener against Brentford was an easy
three points, sure, but then we faced Chelsea and City, and if we came out of
those matches with even a point, it would be a miracle.

And then the season actually started and it was worse than even I expected.
Taking 0 points from the first 9 and scoring no goals in the process was... bad.
Very bad. I was very angry at [Tim from 7amkickoff](https://7amkickoff.com/) for
being right as usual about Arteta not being a very good manager, but then things
got less bad with a couple of 1-0 to the Arsenal wins and then holy shit we
destroyed Spurs in the NLD and went on an unbeaten run that eventually lasted 10
games, but then we lost three in a row again and then we did that thing where we
realise the season is halfway over and start getting results, and there were
signs that Arteta was learning from his mistakes and then we were somehow in the
hunt for the Champion's League and then we lost three in a row again and shit we
were gonna finish out of the CL places and below Spurs again but then we won
four in a row WTF we're gonna do it but then we lost two and finished below
Spurs but at least destroyed Everton on the last day of the season to leave a
smile on the home fans' faces.

Wow, last season was an absolute rollercoaster, wasn't it? And in checking my
memory against the results from last season, I realised that we only drew three
games all season. That's a bit astonishing to me. I don't think it means
anything important, but just seems really unusual. At the end of the season, I
was disappointed that we couldn't quite get over the last hurdle and qualify for
the Champions League again, and of course sad that another year would go by
without a [St. Totteringham's Day
celebration](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~mikepitt/totteringham.html),
but on the other hand, we had finished higher than I expected before the season
started, and we were back in Europe and it wasn't the Conference League, so
honestly, it was a decent season for me. 6/10, in the final analysis.

This summer, we've brought in a centre forward who can hustle and bustle and
press and pass and most importantly, score! We've brought in really solid cover
/ competition for Kieran Tierney at left back in Zinchenko, we've finally found
the new Viera that we've been looking for all these years, and we have William
Saliba back from a great season in France where he won Young Player of the Year,
made Team of the Year, and caught Mbappe from behind to take the ball cleanly
and prevent a sure goal. In addition to being a really exciting young defender
with great long passing, Saliba gives us the ability to move Ben White to right
back when Tomiyasu is out (as he is right now).

I've only watched the highlights from the pre-season matches, as most of them
were in the exceedingly early AM for me and then the one against Sevilla that I
could have watched was ironically not available for streaming in Spain, where I
was at the time, but wow oh wow am I ever excited! An Arsenal team successfully
implementing a high press? An Arsenal team that can counter attack? An Arsenal
team with a centre forward that is in the box and whacking the ball in the net?
Yes please!

So I'm really pumped for tonight!

[gabigabigabi]: assets/2022-08-05-gabi-gabi-gabi.jpg "Gabi Gabi Gabi!" width=800px
