It's Tuesday, and I have a litany of complaints. First and most importantly,
it's hotter than hell... sinki here in Stockholm! Look, I'll show you:

![Screenshot of weather forecast for Stockholm and
Helsinki](assets/2022-06-28-stockholm-helsinki.png "Lies!")

Damn the [lying Norwegians](https://www.yr.no/en) and their lies! At least we're
going to get some relief tomorrow, whilst our neighbours to the northeast will
suffer, so that's something. All jokes aside, the Norwegian Metrological
Institute does provide an excellent weather service, so feel free to enjoy their
oil wealth-fuelled excellence. ;)

The hell / Helsinki thing, whilst it may appear at first glance to be a dad
joke, was actually invented by my friend Adam, who once got in trouble for
telling his sister Ana (who is an awesome person that I exchanged Star Wars
novels and "Pride and Prejudice"-related quips with back in the day) to go to to
Helsinki, with a delay of about 30 minutes between the "hell" and the "sinki"
bits, according to Adam.

So where was I? Oh yes, a litany of complaints. I've covered the heat, so let me
move onto the fact that I need to write 3000-4000 words of the third and final
chapter of "[Story of a mediocre fan](2022-06-16-story-of-a-mediocre-fan.html)"
by Thursday morning, and I currently have 0 words done. I texted my friend
Simon for advice, thinking that since he's a professional journalist and all,
he'd know how to get me unstuck. His answer:

![Screenshot of iMessage chat. Simon says: Ha. Easy. It's like walking. Anyone
can do it. It all depends on what 'writing' means.](assets/2022-06-28-simon-writing-text.png "Thanks, Simon")

What a jerk! Why are we friends again? (I hope he's not reading this, because I
want to borrow his kayak to paddle around Lake MÃ¤laren tomorrow morning before
it gets to hot to think.)

So anyway, I need to start writing about Arsenal, something that normally fills
my heart with joy, but for some reason I'm looking for any distraction that I
can find (did the dishes, started some laundry, watered the plants, took out the
recycling, walked the very good boy, wrote a much longer blog post than
intended).

Lemme just check Clojurians Slack to see if Ray sent me anything...
