Title: Page 2
Date: 2022-10-02
Tags: clojure
Description: In which I turn the page on paging in AWS APIs
Image: assets/2022-10-02-preview.png
Image-Alt: A thick book lying open. Photo by Roman Trifonov on Unsplash.

[Last time out](2022-09-22-aws-paging.html), I was desperately trying to
understand why my beautifully crafted page-aware lazy loading S3 list objects
function was fetching more pages than it actually needed to fulfil my
requirements (doesn't sound very lazy to me!), but to no avail. If you cast your
mind back, I had set my page size to 50, and was taking 105 objects:

``` clojure
(comment

  (->> (list-objects logs-client prefix)
       (take 105))
  ;; => ("logs/E1HJS54CQLFQU4.2022-09-15-00.0125de6e.gz"
  ;;     "logs/E1HJS54CQLFQU4.2022-09-15-00.3b36a099.gz"
  ;;     ...
  ;;     "logs/E1HJS54CQLFQU4.2022-09-15-10.ae86e512.gz"
  ;;     "logs/E1HJS54CQLFQU4.2022-09-15-10.b4a720f9.gz")

)
```

But sadly seeing the following in my REPL buffer:

``` text
Fetching page 1
Fetching page 2
Fetching page 3
Fetching page 4
```

I know that some lazy sequences in Clojure realise in chunks, but those chunks
are usually realised 32 at a time in my experience. It is actually absurdly hard
to find any documentation that explains exactly how chunking works, but one can
gather hints here and there from the dusty corners of the web's ancient past:
- [Laziness and chunking in
  Clojure](http://www.tianxiangxiong.com/2016/11/05/chunking-and-laziness-in-clojure.html) -
  2016
- [Clojure: Not so lazy sequences a.k.a chunking
  behaviour](https://www.markhneedham.com/blog/2014/04/06/clojure-not-so-lazy-sequences-a-k-a-chunking-behaviour/) -
  2014
- [De-chunkifying Sequences in
  Clojure](http://blog.fogus.me/2010/01/22/de-chunkifying-sequences-in-clojure/) -
  2010

They all mention the number 32 (holiest of all powers of 2, clearly), and the
first one even suggests looking at the implementation of
[clojure.core/map](https://github.com/clojure/clojure/blob/clojure-1.10.1/src/clj/clojure/core.clj#L2727)
and seeing that `map` calls the magic `chunk-first`, which "takes 32 elements
for performance reasons". Spelunking deeper into the source for the [definition
of
`chunk-first`](https://github.com/clojure/clojure/blob/clojure-1.10.1/src/clj/clojure/core.clj#L701)
leads one to the following lines:

``` clojure
(defn ^:static  ^clojure.lang.IChunk chunk-first ^clojure.lang.IChunk [^clojure.lang.IChunkedSeq s]
  (.chunkedFirst s))
```

Which leads to Clojure's [Java
implementation](https://github.com/clojure/clojure/tree/clojure-1.10.1/src/jvm/clojure/lang),
which leads to me reading a couple of the classes that implement the `IChunk`
interface, looking for some mention of the chunk size, and running away in
tears.

The funny thing about all of this is that I know that one is [not supposed to
use functions with side effects when processing lazy
sequences](https://stuartsierra.com/2015/08/25/clojure-donts-lazy-effects). In
fact, it says exactly that in the docstring for
[clojure.core/iterate](https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/iterate):

``` text
(iterate f x)

Returns a lazy sequence of x, (f x), (f (f x)) etc. f must be free of
side-effects.
```

But I figured that it would "probably be fine for this use case." 😂

Having received my well-deserved comeuppance—albeit not completely
understanding the form said comeuppance is taking—it's time to figure out how to
lazily page without chunking. As luck would have it, right after I published my
previous post, I opened up [Planet Clojure](http://planet.clojure.in/) in my RSS
reader and saw a post by Abhinav Omprakash on "[Clojure's Iteration function
](https://www.abhinavomprakash.com/posts/clojure-iteration/)". According to the
post, Clojure has a function called `iteration`, and:
> One of the most common use cases for iteration is making paginated api calls.

OK, this looks interesting. Why in the world didn't I know about this? Well,
Abhinav's post links to a post on the JUXT blog called "[The new Clojure
iteration function](https://www.juxt.pro/blog/new-clojure-iteration)" (written
by the irrepressible Renzo Borgatti!) wherein it is revealed that `iteration` is
new in Clojure 1.11. In the post's introduction, Renzo mentions:

> the problem of dealing with batched API calls, those requiring the consumer a
> "token" from the previous invocation to be able to proceed to the next. This
> behaviour is very popular in API interfaces such as AWS S3, where the API
> needs to protect against the case of a client requesting the content of a
> bucket with millions of objects in it.

He goes on to make a bold claim:

> In the past, Clojure developers dealing with paginated APIs have been solving
> the same problem over and over. The problem is to create some layer that hides
> away the need of knowing about the presence of pagination and provides the
> seqable or reducible abstraction we are all familiar with. It is then up to
> the user of such abstractions to decide if they want to eagerly load many
> objects or consume them lazily, without any need to know how many requests are
> necessary or how the pagination mechanism works.

OK, I buy this, having solved this problem in many sub-optimal ways over the
years. So `iteration` really sounds like what I want here. Let's see if I can
modify my code based on the `iterate` function to use `iteration` instead.
Here's what I ended up with last time:

``` clojure
(defn get-s3-page [{:keys [s3-client s3-bucket s3-page-size]}
                   prefix prev]
  (let [{token :NextContinuationToken
         truncated? :IsTruncated
         page-num :page-num} prev
        page-num (if page-num (inc page-num) 1)
        done? (false? truncated?)
        res (when-not done?
              (println "Fetching page" page-num)
              (-> (aws/invoke s3-client
                              {:op :ListObjectsV2
                               :request (mk-s3-req s3-bucket prefix s3-page-size token)})
                  (assoc :page-num page-num)))]
    res))

(defn s3-page-iterator [logs-client prefix]
  (partial get-s3-page logs-client prefix))

(defn list-objects [logs-client prefix]
  (->> (iterate (s3-page-iterator logs-client prefix) nil)
       (drop 1)
       (take-while :Contents)
       (mapcat (comp (partial map :Key) :Contents))))
```

The JUXT post helpfully walks through [an example of listing objects in an S3
bucket](https://www.juxt.pro/blog/new-clojure-iteration#_example_iterating_paginated_objects_using_the_new_function),
which is exactly what I'm doing, but unhelpfully bases the example on
[Amazonica](https://github.com/mcohen01/amazonica) (an excellent Clojure wrapper
around the AWS Java SDK that I used for years until some cool kids from Nubank
told me that all the cool kids were now using Cognitect's
[aws-api](https://github.com/cognitect-labs/aws-api), and I wanted to be cool
like them, so I decided to use it for my next thing, which turned out to be a
great decision since my next thing was
[Blambda](https://github.com/jmglov/blambda), which runs on
[Babashka](https://github.com/babashka/babashka), which can't use the AWS Java
SDK anyway).

Where was I? Oh yeah, the JUXT blog. So it breaks down the arguments to
`iteration`:

``` clojure
(iteration step & {:keys [somef vf kf initk]
                   :or {vf identity
                        kf identity
                        somef some?
                        initk nil}})
```

- `step` is a function of the next marker token. This function should contain
  the logic for making a request to the S3 API (or other relevant paginated API)
  passing the given token.
- `somef` is a function that applied to the return of `(step token)` returns
  `true` or `false` based on the fact that the response contains results or not,
  respectively.
- `vf` is a function that applied to the return of `(step token)` returns the
  items from the current response page.
- `kf` is a function that applied to the return of `(step token)` returns the
  next marker token if one is available.
- `initk` is an initial value for the marker.

Looking at this, my `get-s3-page` function sounds a lot like `step`, in that it
contains the logic for making a request to S3. However, `step` is a function
taking one argument, and `get-s3-page` takes three, so clearly it can't be used
it as is. But the same was actually true for my previous attempt at paging that
used `iterate`, and in fact I wrote a function to take care of this:

``` clojure
(defn s3-page-iterator [logs-client prefix]
  (partial get-s3-page logs-client prefix))
```

`s3-page-iterator` closes over the client and the prefix and returns a function
that takes only one argument: `prev`, which is the previous page of results from
S3. So that's `step` sorted!

In order to figure out what functions I need for `somef`, `vf`, and `kf` (gotta
love the terse names of variables in `clojure.core`!), I need to look at what
`get-s3-page` returns, since all three of those functions operate on the return
value of `(step token)`:

``` clojure
(comment

  (->> (get-s3-page logs-client "logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-26-" nil)
       keys)
  ;; => (:Prefix
  ;;     :NextContinuationToken
  ;;     :Contents
  ;;     :MaxKeys
  ;;     :IsTruncated
  ;;     :Name
  ;;     :KeyCount
  ;;     :page-num)

)
```

I'll tackle `vf` and `kf` first, since they are pretty straightforward. `vf`
needs to return the items from the current response page. Those items live in
the map returned by `get-s3-page` under the `:Contents` key, and since keywords
are functions that when called with a map, look themselves up in the map, I can
use the `:Contents` keyword as my `vf`! 🎉

`kf` returns the next token, which I have in the response as
`:NextContinuationToken`, so it sounds like I should use that for `kf`. The only
problem is that the second invocation of my `step` function will look like this:

``` clojure
(step (:NextContinuationToken response))
```

and `get-s3-page` expects `prev` to be the response itself, from which it knows
how to extract the token all by itself. So I want to just pass the response to
my function as-is, and luckily, Clojure has a function for that: `identity`,
which returns its argument unchanged.

Now it's time to look at `somef`, a function that returns `true` if the response
contains results and `false` otherwise. In my case, `get-s3-page` makes a
request to the S3 API and returns the response **unless** the previous response
wasn't truncated, in which case it returns `nil`. So what I want for `somef` is
a function that returns true for any non-`nil` value, which is exactly what
[clojure.core/some?](https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/some_q) does (not to
be confused with
[clojure.core/some](https://clojuredocs.org/clojure.core/some)).

Now that `somef`, `vf`, and `kf` are sorted, I'll turn my roving eye to `initk`,
which is the initial value for the token passed to my `step` function. Just like
in my previous attempt, I can use `nil` as the initial argument.

So putting this all together, my new `list-objects` function would look like
this:

``` clojure
(defn list-objects [logs-client prefix]
  (->> (iteration (s3-page-iterator logs-client prefix)
                  :vf :Contents
                  :kf identity
                  :somef some?
                  :initk nil)
       (mapcat (partial map :Key))))
```

Looks good, lemme test it out!

``` clojure
(comment

  (->> (list-objects logs-client prefix)
       (take 5))
  ;; => ("logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.0187bda9.gz"
  ;;     "logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.0e46ca54.gz"
  ;;     "logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.348fa655.gz"
  ;;     "logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.4345d6ea.gz"
  ;;     "logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.63005d64.gz")

)
```

Nice! Except for one thing. My REPL buffer reveals that I actually haven't fixed
the problem I set out to fix:

``` text
Fetching page 1
Fetching page 2
Fetching page 3
Fetching page 4
```

Looks like I should have read a little further in the JUXT blog article, because
Renzo explains exactly what's happening here:

> The results of calling [`get-s3-page`] are batched items as a collection of
> collections. In general, we need to collapse the batches into a single
> sequence and process them one by one [...]
>
> Surprisingly, accessing the [first 5 items from] the first page produces
> additional network calls for pages well ahead of what we currently need. This
> is an effect of using [`mapcat`, which always evaluates the first 4
> arguments]!
>
> The reader should understand that this is not a problem of iteration itself,
> but more about the need to concatenate the results back for processing
> maintaining laziness in place.

Renzo being Renzo, of course he has a solution to this:

``` clojure
(defn lazy-concat [colls]
  (lazy-seq
   (when-first [c colls]
     (lazy-cat c (lazy-concat (rest colls))))))
```

I can fold this into my `list-objects` function:

``` clojure
(defn list-objects [logs-client prefix]
  (->> (iteration (s3-page-iterator logs-client prefix)
                  :vf :Contents
                  :kf identity
                  :somef some?
                  :initk nil)
       lazy-concat
       (map :Key)))
```

Since `lazy-concat` is sewing the lists returned by `iteration` together, I
don't need the chunktacular `mapcat` anymore; I can just use regular old `map`.
Let's see if this works:

``` clojure
(comment

  (->> (list-objects logs-client prefix)
       (take 5))
  ;; => ("logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.0187bda9.gz"
  ;;     "logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.0e46ca54.gz"
  ;;     "logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.348fa655.gz"
  ;;     "logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.4345d6ea.gz"
  ;;     "logs/A1BCD23EFGHIJ4.2022-09-25-00.63005d64.gz")

)
```

And the REPL buffer?

``` text
Fetching page 1
```

Amazing!

There's one last thing that's bugging me, though. If I look back at the docs for
`iteration`, I see that it has some default arguments:

``` clojure
(iteration step & {:keys [somef vf kf initk]
                   :or {vf identity
                        kf identity
                        somef some?
                        initk nil}})
```

So `vf` and `kf` default to `identity`, `somef` defaults to `some?`, and `initk`
defaults to `nil`. Taking a look at how I call `iteration`, things look quite
familiar:

``` clojure
(iteration (s3-page-iterator logs-client prefix)
           :vf :Contents
           :kf identity
           :somef some?
           :initk nil)
```

My `kf`, `somef`, and `initk` all match the defaults! Looks like the Clojure
core team kinda knows what they're doing. 😉

With this knowledge under my belt, I can simplify `list-objects` even further:

``` clojure
(defn list-objects [logs-client prefix]
  (->> (iteration (s3-page-iterator logs-client prefix)
                  :vf :Contents)
       lazy-concat
       (map :Key)))
```

The cool thing about all of this is that I could use the exact same
`get-s3-page` function I had before, as well as the same `s3-page-iterator`
function, and only needed to change `list-objects` and sprinkle in the magic
`lazy-concat` function from Renzo's box o' fun!

Before you try this at home, be sure to read the JUXT blog post carefully enough
not to miss this sentence, which probably should have been bold and inside the
dearly departed HTML `<blink>` tag:

> You need to remember to avoid using sequence with transducers for processing
> items even after the initial concatenation, because as soon as you do,
> chunking will hunt you down.
