I run this site on AWS S3, using static website hosting. In terms of simplicity,
it's hard to beat: just toss your stuff in an S3 bucket, make sure the
Content-type metadata is correct, and off you go. However, it doesn't support
HTTPS by default. My site doesn't have anything on it that really **requires**
end-to-end encryption, but a professional programmer who has been deep into AWS
for the past 10 years or so having an HTTP-only site in 2022 is tacky and
embarrassing. So today we shall remedy this, in 50 simple steps!

1. Apply to [The College of William and Mary](https://www.wm.edu/) in Virginia.
2. Drink 18 cups of coffee one night at a jazz club.
3. Try to go to work the next day but then have to come home because you feel
   like shit warmed over.
4. Curl up on the couch and try to sleep.
5. Get woken up when the mail carrier slides a fat envelope through the mail
   slot in your apartment door.
6. See that the envelope is from The College of William and Mary in Virginia.
7. Years later, write a blog post on how to enable HTTPS for your S3 website in
   which you mention The College of William and Mary in Virginia a lot, and
   realise that you really should explain to your readers that whilst The
   College of William and Mary in Virginia currently writes its name as "William
   & Mary", its proper name is in fact The College of William and Mary in
   Virginia, unless they've changed it at some point since you went there. It's
   kinda like Ohio State: if you didn't go there, you call it Ohio State, but
   actual Buckeyes will invariably remind you that it is really called The Ohio
   State University.
8. Rip open that envelope with trembling hands (coffee hangover or excitement:
   you decide).
9. Read the world "congratulations" and, overcome by joy, pass out on the couch.
10. Get assigned an email address by W&M (haha! another way to write it!) which
    is the first letter of your first name, the first letter of your middle name
    (or "x" if you don't have a middle name, if you recall correctly), and the
    first four letters of your surname (if your surname is fewer than four
    letters, you honestly can't remember what W&M would make of that).
11. Decide that email address is pretty dope.
12. Enroll in Computer Science 101 and find out that your Unix username is the
    same as your email address, just without the "@wm.edu" bit on the end.
13. Some years later, register a domain with your dope-ass Unix username.
14. Create a primitive website and serve it off Apache on this old computer that
    you keep under your desk in Columbus, Ohio whilst your wife gets a master's
    degree in Japanese language and pedagogy.
15. Have intermittent fights with Apache because it can be a real PITA to
    configure sometimes.
16. Get an SSL cert from something similar to [Let's
    Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) that you forget the name of, but then
    remember that you must still have an account there because you're a trained
    assurer, so look it up in your encrypted password file that you started
    sometime back in the very late 90s.
17. Discover that it is called [CAcert](http://www.cacert.org/), that it still
    exists, and that it is still not included in the trusted certificate
    authorities that ship with Firefox.
18. Enable `mod_ssl` on Apache and rejoice in the "s" that you now get to add
    before the ":" when you type "http://" to visit your website!
19. Ask your friend Adrian to host your domain and website and mailserver for
    you because you're moving to Japan because your wife is super smart and got
    a scholarship to this intensive Japanese language study programme and so you
    need to ditch your tower computers and buy a laptop instead.
20. Forget about your website for many many years.
21. See that AWS has added a static website hosting feature to S3.
22. Point your domain at it.
23. Realise at some point that `https://` doesn't work no more.
24. Cry bitter tears but then get over it.
25. Transfer your domain to [AWS Route 53](https://aws.amazon.com/route53/) at
    some point.
26. Remember this whole HTTPS thing again and become embarrassed enough to do
    something about it.
27. Try to get it working through some ACM witchcraft, but then get quite
    frustrated for some reason and ragequit.
28. Don't think about it for many years.
29. Go through the process of [Creating a blog with Clojure in 50 simple
    steps](http://jmglov.net/blog/2022-06-17-creating-a-blog-with-clojure.html).
30. Proudly post a link to your blog.
31. Get super embarrassed when your friend Thomas DMs you on Twitter to tell you
    to sort your shit out vis-à-vis HTTPS because c'mon, person!
32. Wait for your friend Plínio to offer to share his technique with you.
33. Mix up some accidentally double-strength margaritas for yourself and your
    friend Simon and then play some Guitar Hero all night.
34. Start watching "Star Trek: Generations" after Simon leaves for home.
35. Send a drunk text to your mean but cool friend Sen to tell her that you're
    watching "Generations" and she can suck it.
36. Send a drunk WhatsApp voice message to your friends Micheleangelo and Tane
    telling them how great they are.
37. Wake up at 09:30 the next morning with a slight headache and some serious
    cotton mouth.
38. Take the poor patient doggy out for a walk.
39. Tell your friend Ray about your tequila measurement issue.
40. Make a pot of coffee and an enormous greasy breakfast.
41. Sit down at your computer to write.
42. Realise that you could probably get HTTPS working for your website.
43. Write 43 steps for how to do it before you actually get around to so much as
    opening the link that Thomas sent you because Plínio is just a tease and
    hasn't yet shared the good stuff with you. C'mon, Plínio, puff puff pass
    already, brah!
44. Pop over to the [ACM
    console](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/acm/home?region=us-east-1#/welcome)
    to register a cert.
45. Realise that you might be getting ahead of yourself and open the [Configuring
    a static website using a custom domain registered with Route
    53](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/website-hosting-custom-domain-walkthrough.html)
    page that Thomas sent you first so you don't take any missteps.
46. Create a bucket to hold your access logs, because that seems like a good
    idea.
47. Enable server access logging in your root domain bucket.
48. Refresh a page on your website and then excitedly check your logs bucket and
    get disappointed when you don't see anything there. Shrug your shoulders and
    assume that there's some buffering happening, so something will probably
    show up there sooner or later.
49. Read a little note on the AWS page:
> **Note**
>
> Amazon S3 does not support HTTPS access to the website. If you want to use
HTTPS, you can use Amazon CloudFront to serve a static website hosted on
Amazon S3.
>
> For more information, see [How do I use CloudFront to serve a static website
hosted on Amazon
S3?](https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/knowledge-center/cloudfront-serve-static-website/)
and [Requiring HTTPS for communication between viewers and
CloudFront](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/using-https-viewers-to-cloudfront.html).
50. Start to say "well, duh", but then remember that "duh" is an ableist word,
    so say "uh, yeah" instead because it is one of the helpful alternatives
    provided by the super awesome [Lydia X. Z.
    Brown](https://twitter.com/autistichoya) on the super awesome [autistichoya
    blog](https://www.autistichoya.com/p/ableist-words-and-terms-to-avoid.html).
    Start to move onto the next step but then realise that you're already on
    step 50 and thus you now have a conundrum: do you
    - Just add another step, even though you've already titled this piece "Using
      HTTPS with S3 static website hosting in 50 simple steps" and the previous
      [two](http://jmglov.net/blog/2022-06-17-creating-a-blog-with-clojure.html)
      [posts](http://jmglov.net/blog/2022-06-20-installing-steam-on-nixos.html)
      in this format have been exactly 50 steps each, and that's kinda the point
      of a format: sticking to it?
    - Cheat by using a bullet list within step 50?
    - Realise that it's late in the day and you really need to take the dog out
      before you walk over to the vet to get her to sign one place on your dog's
      doggy passport that she forgot to yesterday but was nice enough to call
      you about 30 minutes ago and ask you to check because she wasn't sure she
      had signed everywhere and also your friend Tim has posted chapter 2 of
      "[Story of a mediocre
      fan](https://7amkickoff.com/index.php/2022/06/23/story-of-a-mediocre-fan-chapter-2/)"
      over on 7amkickoff, so you don't actually have to post this piece today
      anyway, so you can actually stop writing and finish this stuff up
      tomorrow?

Which to choose, which to choose?
