Title: Two simple things
Tags: waffle
Date: 2022-07-02

A couple of years back, I made two really minor changes that improved my quality
of life in a major way.

For most of my life, I've had trouble falling asleep. Once I do fall asleep, I
usually sleep well, but for whatever reason, my brain has trouble shutting
itself down at night so that I can drift off to sleep. This seemed to be getting
worse as I got older, until I stumbled onto two things.

The first came when we were in the US to visit my family. We had gone to the
beach with them for a week in Delaware, then driven down to my aunt's house in
Vienna (Virginia, not Austria) to spend the night and catch our flight the
following afternoon. My best friend from childhood, Adam, just so happened to be
off that day, and drove up from Richmond so he could hang out with us for a few
hours before we had to go to the airport.

Adam is a social worker who specialises in addiction, and he was talking about
how many of his clients who manage to get clean tend to smoke and drink a lot of
coffee. One particular client always grabbed a cup of coffee on the way into see
Adam, and then ducked out to refill his cup halfway through the appointment. His
appointments were usually in mid-afternoon, and one day, he was telling Adam
about how poor his sleep quality was. Adam suggested that he lay off coffee
after lunch, but the client insisted that coffee didn't have any effect on him
because he was so used to it, and he could fall asleep easily no matter how many
cups he had, it was just that he always woke up in the middle of the night and
tossed and turned. Adam didn't press the point with the client, but he told me
that caffeine affects us all, despite how much tolerance we think we have.

At this point, I drank about five or six cups of coffee a day: two cups of black
drip coffee with my breakfast at home, two lattes before lunch at work (we had
machines there that made a decent latte, and one of them even had oat milk!),
and another one or two after lunch. When we got back to Sweden, I kept thinking
about what Adam had said, and I decided to stop drinking coffee after lunch. The
improvement was almost instantaneous; I got to sleep much faster and actually
found that I was less tired in the morning.

It wasn't a panacea, of course. I still had those nights where my brain wouldn't
stop coming up with interesting ideas when I was trying to fall asleep. Luckily,
my second discovery wasn't far off, and this one was born of pure serendipity.

Everyone in my family has iPhones, and we all have chargers on our bedside
tables, and I have an additional one in my office room (also known as the guest
bedroom). One day, my son's charger stopped working, and it turned out to be
because the cable had just worn out. Since I had a charger in the office, I gave
him the cable from my bedside table and just started plugging my phone in to
charge in the office room instead.

This made a big difference. I always try to read in bed before falling asleep,
but when my phone was there, I'd often notice that I had a notification on
Twitter, or my friend Justin would send me a link to some dodgy Arsenal transfer
rumour on WhatsApp, or I'd wonder if there was a new [xkcd](https://xkcd.com/)
or whatever, so I'd put my bookmark in "just for a second" and grab my phone to
check things out. When I moved my phone in the other room, even if I was curious
about xkcd or wanted to check my schedule for tomorrow or whatever, it was such
a pain to get out of my comfy bed and walk to the other room that I just said to
myself, "meh, I'll check in the morning," and went back to my book.

It turns out that there are two properties of smartphones that aren't great for
sleep. The first one is blue light, which [suppresses the body's secretion of
melatonin](https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/blue-light-has-a-dark-side),
which is a hormone that is normally produced at night and tells our body that
it's sleepytime. The second is social media, which seems to have [some
correlation with decreased quality of
sleep](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0747563220302399).

So without knowing I was doing it, I removed a major sleep impedient from my
life just because an iPhone charger cable stopped charging. Thanks, Apple!
